applications/application-mac.md, before:

---
layout: default
title: Mining Association of Canada (MAC) Governance Framework - Draft
parent: Applications
---

## Mining Association of Canada (MAC) Governance Framework - Draft

# 1. Primary Document

## 1.1. Introduction 

This document articulates the governance framework for the Mining Association of Canada (MAC) as an actor involved in the verifiable credential exchanges [(layer four application of the Trust Over IP Foundation (ToIP) model)](https://www.trustoverip.org/wp-content/toip-model/).

The development of this documentation follows the governance framework created by the [Trust over IP Foundation (ToIP)](https://trustoverip.org/) [Governance Metamodel Specification](https://trustoverip.org/wp-content/uploads/ToIP-Governance-Metamodel-Specification-V1.0-2022-12-21.pdf) created by the [Governance Stack Working Group (GSWG)](https://wiki.trustoverip.org/display/HOME/Governance+Stack+Working+Group).

These materials are made available under and are subject to the [Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International license](http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/legalcode).

THESE MATERIALS ARE PROVIDED “AS IS.” The Trust Over IP Foundation, established as the Joint Development Foundation Projects, LLC, Trust Over IP Foundation Series ("ToIP"), and its members and contributors (each of ToIP, its members and contributors, a "ToIP Party") expressly disclaim any warranties (express, implied, or otherwise), including implied warranties of merchantability, non-infringement, fitness for a particular purpose, or title, related to the materials. The entire risk as to implementing or otherwise using the materials is assumed by the implementer and user. 

IN NO EVENT WILL ANY ToIP PARTY BE LIABLE TO ANY OTHER PARTY FOR LOST PROFITS OR ANY FORM OF INDIRECT, SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OF ANY CHARACTER FROM ANY CAUSES OF ACTION OF ANY KIND WITH RESPECT TO THESE MATERIALS, ANY DELIVERABLE OR THE ToIP GOVERNING AGREEMENT, WHETHER BASED ON BREACH OF CONTRACT, TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE), OR OTHERWISE, AND WHETHER OR NOT THE OTHER PARTY HAS BEEN ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.

***Acknowledgements***

This governance framework includes structural elements from the Trust over IP Metamodel that were developed by Governance Stack Working Group of the Trust over IP Foundation, the eSSIF Lab Glossary and Mental Models, were contributed to the Trust Over IP Foundation under the CC BY-SA 4.0 license.  There have also been contributions from the Concepts & Terminology Working Group at ToIP, the Human Experience Working Group at ToIP and the Ecosystem Foundry Working Group at ToIP, the work of the Governance Framework Working Group at Sovrin Foundation is also acknowledged in providing support.

## 1.2. Terminology and Notation 

[Glossary - General Trust Over IP Terms](https://trustoverip.github.io/toip/glossary)

**Requirements** include any combination of Machine-Testable Requirements and Human-Auditable Requirements. Unless otherwise stated, all Requirements MUST be expressed as defined in [RFC 2119](https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc2119).

- Mandates are Requirements that use a MUST, MUST NOT, SHALL, SHALL NOT or REQUIRED keyword.
- Recommendations are Requirements that use a SHOULD, SHOULD NOT, or RECOMMENDED keyword.
- Options are Requirements that use a MAY or OPTIONAL keyword.

**Machine-Testable Requirements** are those with which compliance can be verified using an automated test suite and appropriate scripting or testing software.

**Rules** are Machine-Testable Requirements that are written in a Machine-Readable language and can be processed by a Rules Engine. They are expressed in a structured rules language as specified by the Governance Framework.

**Human-Auditable Requirements** are those with which compliance can only be verified by an audit of people, processes, and procedures.

**Policies** are Human-Auditable Requirements written using standard conformance terminology. The Policies used in the Governance Framework will use the standard terminology detailed in RFC 2119 keywords. Note that all RFC 2119 keywords have weight from an auditing perspective. An implementer MUST explain why a SHOULD or RECOMMENDED requirement was not implemented and SHOULD explain why a MAY requirement was implemented.

**Specifications** are documents containing any combination of Machine-Testable Requirements and Human-Auditable Requirements needed to produce technical interoperability.

## 1.3. Localization
The standard language for this Governance Framework (GF) is American English.

## 1.4. Governing Authority 

The [Mining Association of Canada (MAC)](https://mining.ca/) is the Governing Authority responsible for this Governance Framework (GF). The contact information for MAC during the pilot phase of development is:

*   **Name:**  Katherine Gosselin
* 	**Title:** Director of Towards Sustainable Mining
* 	**Organization:** The Mining Association of Canada
* 	**Email:** [kgosselin@mining.ca](mailto:kgosselin@mining.ca)

## 1.5. Administering Authority

[Energy and Mines Digital Trust (EMDT)](https://digital.gov.bc.ca/case-studies/emdt) is the Administering Authority on behalf of the Mining Association of Canada (MAC) during the pilot phase of development.

The contact information for EMDT is:
* 	**Name:** Kyle Robinson 
* 	**Title:** Senior Strategic Advisor, Digital Trust Ecosystems
* 	**Organization:** Briartech Consulting Inc.
* 	**Email:** [kyle.robinson@briartech.ca](mailto:kyle.robinson@briartech.ca)

## 1.6. Purpose

The purpose of this governance framework is to describe the rules/policies/procedures for verifiable credential exchanges involving Mining Association of Canada (MAC) with the open global community. The purpose of the rules is to enable all actors to understand agreed upon standards, terminology and processes that allow the community to interact with MAC in a trusted manner. This will help determine a governing framework and operating model for a global ecosystem that identifies how credentials can be issued, held, and verified. 

## 1.7. Scope 

Mining Association of Canada (MAC) is a participant in an open ecosystem and the focus of this framework is to describe the process MAC uses for digital exchanges on Indy networks.

## 1.8. Objectives

1. Drive continuous enhancement of on-site sustainability performance through strategic approaches.
2. Encourage company progress from good practice to excellence via a multi-level rating system, supported by TSM protocols for benchmarking and target setting.
3. Enable industry-level monitoring, trend identification, and intervention by using comprehensive TSM reporting data from national mining associations and stakeholders.

## 1.9. Principles 

The Towards Sustainable Mining (TSM) program created by the MAC has a set of [Guiding Principles](https://mining.ca/download/36658/), which all participating members must commit to. These [Guiding Principles](https://mining.ca/download/36658/), address the expectation of its members towards adopting social, economic and environmental practices that align with the priorities and values of their communities of interest. 

MAC is also guided by its [Mission and Vision](https://mining.ca/about-us/). The Mission of MAC is to contribute to building a strong, sustainable and internationally competitive Canadian mining, minerals and metals industry with broad national support and to promote sound corporate and public policy.The Vision Statement of MAC is to create a strong, responsible and globally competitive Canadian mining and mineral processing industry that creates wealth and opportunity for all Canadians.

## 1.10. General Requirements
TBD

## 1.11. Revisions

_TBD - How and when Mining Association of Canada (MAC) would change governance framework_

## 1.12. Extensions

There are no extensions to this Governance Framework.

## 1.13. Schedule of Controlled Documents

TBD

# 2. Controlled Documents

## 2.1. Glossary
N/A

## 2.2. Risk Assessment

TBD

## 2.3. Trust Assurance and Certification

Trust Assurance and Certification is derived from [ICL](https://icl-group-sustainability.com/reports/voluntary-external-standards/).  The great majority of ICL’s production facilities are certified with ISO standards or with equivalent standards for environmental management, safety and quality. All major energy consuming sites are certified with the energy ISO standard. ICL has developed [Reporting Standards](https://icl-group-sustainability.com/reports/gri-content-index/) and [Voluntary External Standards](https://icl-group-sustainability.com/reports/voluntary-external-standards/).  MAC is currently in the process of applying for community membership with ICL, which will then progress to full membership which involves peer review and external assurance of compliance. When complete, MAC will be able to claim ICL compliance through third party processes. 

## 2.4. Governance Requirements

TBD

## 2.5. Business Requirements

### 2.5.1. Establishing connections

1. Mining Association of Canada (MAC) MUST send an invitation to the other business entity via email to initiate the exchange of information via digital wallet. 
2. The receiving party MUST accept invitation in order to establish a secure connection.

### 2.5.2. Annual MAC Membership Confirmation
Participation in the TSM initiative is mandatory for all MAC members for their Canadian operations, members MUST adhere to the [TSM reporting requirements](https://mining.ca/towards-sustainable-mining/protocols-frameworks/tsm-protocol-reporting-schedule/):

* Self-assessed TSM performance indicators MUST be reported to MAC annually using a presentation request. Amendments to this requirement are offered to high TSM performers and described in the [TSM Primer]( https://mining.ca/wp-content/uploads/dlm_uploads/2021/04/TSM-Primer-English.pdf) under the section labelled _Optional Reporting and Verification Process_

1. Using the established connection, Mining Association of Canada (MAC) MUST receive a verification request from the business entity. 
2. Continuing from step 1, the business entity MUST provide **all of the attributes** in the presentation proposal as outlined in the [TSM Protocol Credential Governance](https://github.com/bcgov/bc-vcpedia/blob/main/credentials/credential-tsm-protocol.md#261-schema-definition)
3. Mining Association of Canada (MAC) will receive and review the proposal
4. Any clarification questions can be asked via the secure messaging function 
5. Annual self-assessments MUST be submitted through presentation requests
6. Once all data is submitted and correct, MAC will offer the credential to the business entity
7. Business entity can choose to accept or negotiate the credential to request changes

## 2.6. Technical Requirements

*MUST have an Aries compatible business wallet.*

## 2.7. Information Trust Requirements

•	[MAC Privacy of Information](https://mining.ca/privacy-information/)

## 2.8. Inclusion, Equitability and Accessibility Requirement
•	[MAC Advancing Diversity and Inclusion](https://mining.ca/advancing-diversity-and-inclusion-in-canadas-mining-sector/)

## 2.9. Legal Agreements
MAC as the owner of intellectual property that TSM consists of.

# End of Document

Commit message:

CH Update application-mac.md
Updated information on Revisions section based on notes from Ben Chalmers related to TSM and MAC committee decision making

applications/application-mac.md, after:

---
layout: default
title: Mining Association of Canada (MAC) Governance Framework - Draft
parent: Applications
---

## Mining Association of Canada (MAC) Governance Framework - Draft

# 1. Primary Document

## 1.1. Introduction 

This document articulates the governance framework for the Mining Association of Canada (MAC) as an actor involved in the verifiable credential exchanges [(layer four application of the Trust Over IP Foundation (ToIP) model)](https://www.trustoverip.org/wp-content/toip-model/).

The development of this documentation follows the governance framework created by the [Trust over IP Foundation (ToIP)](https://trustoverip.org/) [Governance Metamodel Specification](https://trustoverip.org/wp-content/uploads/ToIP-Governance-Metamodel-Specification-V1.0-2022-12-21.pdf) created by the [Governance Stack Working Group (GSWG)](https://wiki.trustoverip.org/display/HOME/Governance+Stack+Working+Group).

These materials are made available under and are subject to the [Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International license](http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/legalcode).

THESE MATERIALS ARE PROVIDED “AS IS.” The Trust Over IP Foundation, established as the Joint Development Foundation Projects, LLC, Trust Over IP Foundation Series ("ToIP"), and its members and contributors (each of ToIP, its members and contributors, a "ToIP Party") expressly disclaim any warranties (express, implied, or otherwise), including implied warranties of merchantability, non-infringement, fitness for a particular purpose, or title, related to the materials. The entire risk as to implementing or otherwise using the materials is assumed by the implementer and user. 

IN NO EVENT WILL ANY ToIP PARTY BE LIABLE TO ANY OTHER PARTY FOR LOST PROFITS OR ANY FORM OF INDIRECT, SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OF ANY CHARACTER FROM ANY CAUSES OF ACTION OF ANY KIND WITH RESPECT TO THESE MATERIALS, ANY DELIVERABLE OR THE ToIP GOVERNING AGREEMENT, WHETHER BASED ON BREACH OF CONTRACT, TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE), OR OTHERWISE, AND WHETHER OR NOT THE OTHER PARTY HAS BEEN ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.

***Acknowledgements***

This governance framework includes structural elements from the Trust over IP Metamodel that were developed by Governance Stack Working Group of the Trust over IP Foundation, the eSSIF Lab Glossary and Mental Models, were contributed to the Trust Over IP Foundation under the CC BY-SA 4.0 license.  There have also been contributions from the Concepts & Terminology Working Group at ToIP, the Human Experience Working Group at ToIP and the Ecosystem Foundry Working Group at ToIP, the work of the Governance Framework Working Group at Sovrin Foundation is also acknowledged in providing support.

## 1.2. Terminology and Notation 

[Glossary - General Trust Over IP Terms](https://trustoverip.github.io/toip/glossary)

**Requirements** include any combination of Machine-Testable Requirements and Human-Auditable Requirements. Unless otherwise stated, all Requirements MUST be expressed as defined in [RFC 2119](https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc2119).

- Mandates are Requirements that use a MUST, MUST NOT, SHALL, SHALL NOT or REQUIRED keyword.
- Recommendations are Requirements that use a SHOULD, SHOULD NOT, or RECOMMENDED keyword.
- Options are Requirements that use a MAY or OPTIONAL keyword.

**Machine-Testable Requirements** are those with which compliance can be verified using an automated test suite and appropriate scripting or testing software.

**Rules** are Machine-Testable Requirements that are written in a Machine-Readable language and can be processed by a Rules Engine. They are expressed in a structured rules language as specified by the Governance Framework.

**Human-Auditable Requirements** are those with which compliance can only be verified by an audit of people, processes, and procedures.

**Policies** are Human-Auditable Requirements written using standard conformance terminology. The Policies used in the Governance Framework will use the standard terminology detailed in RFC 2119 keywords. Note that all RFC 2119 keywords have weight from an auditing perspective. An implementer MUST explain why a SHOULD or RECOMMENDED requirement was not implemented and SHOULD explain why a MAY requirement was implemented.

**Specifications** are documents containing any combination of Machine-Testable Requirements and Human-Auditable Requirements needed to produce technical interoperability.

## 1.3. Localization
The standard language for this Governance Framework (GF) is American English.

## 1.4. Governing Authority 

The [Mining Association of Canada (MAC)](https://mining.ca/) is the Governing Authority responsible for this Governance Framework (GF). The contact information for MAC during the pilot phase of development is:

*   **Name:**  Katherine Gosselin
* 	**Title:** Director of Towards Sustainable Mining
* 	**Organization:** The Mining Association of Canada
* 	**Email:** [kgosselin@mining.ca](mailto:kgosselin@mining.ca)

## 1.5. Administering Authority

[Energy and Mines Digital Trust (EMDT)](https://digital.gov.bc.ca/case-studies/emdt) is the Administering Authority on behalf of the Mining Association of Canada (MAC) during the pilot phase of development.

The contact information for EMDT is:
* 	**Name:** Kyle Robinson 
* 	**Title:** Senior Strategic Advisor, Digital Trust Ecosystems
* 	**Organization:** Briartech Consulting Inc.
* 	**Email:** [kyle.robinson@briartech.ca](mailto:kyle.robinson@briartech.ca)

## 1.6. Purpose

The purpose of this governance framework is to describe the rules/policies/procedures for verifiable credential exchanges involving Mining Association of Canada (MAC) with the open global community. The purpose of the rules is to enable all actors to understand agreed upon standards, terminology and processes that allow the community to interact with MAC in a trusted manner. This will help determine a governing framework and operating model for a global ecosystem that identifies how credentials can be issued, held, and verified. 

## 1.7. Scope 

Mining Association of Canada (MAC) is a participant in an open ecosystem and the focus of this framework is to describe the process MAC uses for digital exchanges on Indy networks.

## 1.8. Objectives

1. Drive continuous enhancement of on-site sustainability performance through strategic approaches.
2. Encourage company progress from good practice to excellence via a multi-level rating system, supported by TSM protocols for benchmarking and target setting.
3. Enable industry-level monitoring, trend identification, and intervention by using comprehensive TSM reporting data from national mining associations and stakeholders.

## 1.9. Principles 

The Towards Sustainable Mining (TSM) program created by the MAC has a set of [Guiding Principles](https://mining.ca/download/36658/), which all participating members must commit to. These [Guiding Principles](https://mining.ca/download/36658/), address the expectation of its members towards adopting social, economic and environmental practices that align with the priorities and values of their communities of interest. 

MAC is also guided by its [Mission and Vision](https://mining.ca/about-us/). The Mission of MAC is to contribute to building a strong, sustainable and internationally competitive Canadian mining, minerals and metals industry with broad national support and to promote sound corporate and public policy.The Vision Statement of MAC is to create a strong, responsible and globally competitive Canadian mining and mineral processing industry that creates wealth and opportunity for all Canadians.

## 1.10. General Requirements
TBD

## 1.11. Revisions

_TBD - How and when Mining Association of Canada (MAC) would change governance framework_

In the MAC Business Advocacy and Government Relations Section, industry committees (i.e. Environment Committee) are made up of member representatives managed by MAC staff. Revisions occur through the committee process to develop positions that are reviewed and approved by the Board of Directors.

TSM initiative leaders work through MAC committees. TSM decisions are reviewed by MAC Community of Interest Panel and Multi Stakeholder Panels. After consensus is reached, decisions are presented to the Board for decision. 

## 1.12. Extensions

There are no extensions to this Governance Framework.

## 1.13. Schedule of Controlled Documents

TBD

# 2. Controlled Documents

## 2.1. Glossary
N/A

## 2.2. Risk Assessment

TBD

## 2.3. Trust Assurance and Certification

Trust Assurance and Certification is derived from [ICL](https://icl-group-sustainability.com/reports/voluntary-external-standards/).  The great majority of ICL’s production facilities are certified with ISO standards or with equivalent standards for environmental management, safety and quality. All major energy consuming sites are certified with the energy ISO standard. ICL has developed [Reporting Standards](https://icl-group-sustainability.com/reports/gri-content-index/) and [Voluntary External Standards](https://icl-group-sustainability.com/reports/voluntary-external-standards/).  MAC is currently in the process of applying for community membership with ICL, which will then progress to full membership which involves peer review and external assurance of compliance. When complete, MAC will be able to claim ICL compliance through third party processes. 

## 2.4. Governance Requirements

TBD

## 2.5. Business Requirements

### 2.5.1. Establishing connections

1. Mining Association of Canada (MAC) MUST send an invitation to the other business entity via email to initiate the exchange of information via digital wallet. 
2. The receiving party MUST accept invitation in order to establish a secure connection.

### 2.5.2. Annual MAC Membership Confirmation
Participation in the TSM initiative is mandatory for all MAC members for their Canadian operations, members MUST adhere to the [TSM reporting requirements](https://mining.ca/towards-sustainable-mining/protocols-frameworks/tsm-protocol-reporting-schedule/):

* Self-assessed TSM performance indicators MUST be reported to MAC annually using a presentation request. Amendments to this requirement are offered to high TSM performers and described in the [TSM Primer]( https://mining.ca/wp-content/uploads/dlm_uploads/2021/04/TSM-Primer-English.pdf) under the section labelled _Optional Reporting and Verification Process_

1. Using the established connection, Mining Association of Canada (MAC) MUST receive a verification request from the business entity. 
2. Continuing from step 1, the business entity MUST provide **all of the attributes** in the presentation proposal as outlined in the [TSM Protocol Credential Governance](https://github.com/bcgov/bc-vcpedia/blob/main/credentials/credential-tsm-protocol.md#261-schema-definition)
3. Mining Association of Canada (MAC) will receive and review the proposal
4. Any clarification questions can be asked via the secure messaging function 
5. Annual self-assessments MUST be submitted through presentation requests
6. Once all data is submitted and correct, MAC will offer the credential to the business entity
7. Business entity can choose to accept or negotiate the credential to request changes

## 2.6. Technical Requirements

*MUST have an Aries compatible business wallet.*

## 2.7. Information Trust Requirements

•	[MAC Privacy of Information](https://mining.ca/privacy-information/)

## 2.8. Inclusion, Equitability and Accessibility Requirement
•	[MAC Advancing Diversity and Inclusion](https://mining.ca/advancing-diversity-and-inclusion-in-canadas-mining-sector/)

## 2.9. Legal Agreements
MAC as the owner of intellectual property that TSM consists of.

# End of Document
