
# DRAFT - EO100™ Certification Statement Credential

## 1. Primary Document
### 1.1. Introduction
This document articulates the certification statement credential for the EO100™ Standard for Responsible Energy Development and the EO100™ Technical Supplement: Onshore Natural Gas and Light Oil Production from Equitable Origin. 


This governance document has been developed in accordance with the ToIP’s Governance Metamodel Specification created by the Governance Stack Working Group (GSWG) as the template for this framework.

### 1.2. Terminology and Notation

[Glossary - General Trust Over IP Terms](https://trustoverip.github.io/toip/glossary)

### 1.3. Localization

The standard language for this governing framework (GF) is English.
 
### 1.4. Governing Authority

Equitable Origin

### 1.5. Administering Authority

The administering authority is the same as the governing authority.

### 1.6. Purpose

TBD (should be a one sentence or maximum one paragraph statement of the overall purpose ("mission" of the governing framework.)

### 1.7. Scope

This governance framework only covers the credential for the EO100™ certification from Equitable Origin.

### 1.8. Objectives

TBD

### 1.9. Principles

TBD

### 1.10. General Requirements

TBD

### 1.11. Revisions

Current version is draft. 

### 1.12. Extensions

TBD

### 1.13. Schedule of Controlled Documents


## 2. Controlled Documents

### 2.1. Glossary
TBD

### 2.2. Risk Assessment
TBD

### 2.3. Trust Assurance and Certification
TBD

### 2.4. Governance Requirements
TBD

### 2.5. Business Requirements
TBD

### 2.6. Technical Requirements
Technical requirement consists of the following schema definition and credential implementation.

##### 2.6.1. Schema Definition

This schema definition follows the AnonCreds specification (https://anoncreds-wg.github.io/anoncreds-spec/)

Attribute | Format | Rules | Notes
--- | --- | --- | ---
certificate_issuer | String | Not NULL | name field, Equitable Origin
certificate_number | String | Not NULL | alpha-numerical id generated by Equitable Origin
operator | String | Not NULL | name field, name of the company
ucp_name | String | Not NULL | unit of certifiable production, name field similar to site or facility name
ucp_location_city | String | Not NULL | name field
ucp_location_province | String | Not NULL | name field
ucp_location_country | String | Not NULL | name field
certification_date | String | Not NULL | day, month, year
expiration_date | String | Not NULL | day, month, year
certification_standard | String | Not NULL | name field, specify standard "EO100™ Standard for Responsible Energy Development" 
assessor_name | String | Not NULL | name field, company name of verifier



##### 2.6.2. Credential Implementation
Ledger | SCHEMA DEF | CRED DEF | Notes	
--- | --- | --- | ---
BCovrin Test | TBD | --- | ---

### 2.7 Information Trust Requirements
TBD

### 2.8. Inclusion, Equitability, and Accessibility Requirements
TBD

### 2.9. Legal Agreements

## End of Document
