credentials/credential-qube-report.md, before:

# Qube Monthly Report Primary Governance Document

## 1. Primary Document

### 1.1. Introduction
This document articulates the credential for the Qube Report Credential. This report is submitted on a monthly basis. 



This governance document has been developed in accordance with the ToIP’s Governance Metamodel Specification created by the Governance Stack Working Group (GSWG) as the template for this framework.

### 1.2. Terminology and Notation

[Glossary - General Trust Over IP Terms](https://trustoverip.github.io/toip/glossary)

### 1.3. Localization

The standard language for this governing framework (GF) is English.
 
### 1.4. Governing Authority

__________________is the governing authority and party legally responsible for developing, maintaining and implementing the Governance Framework. This is the only issuing party. 
The contact for petitioners and relying parties of this GF is:
* 	Name ___________
* 	Title ____________
* 	Organization ___________
* 	Email ____________

### 1.5. Administering Authority

TBD

### 1.6. Purpose

The purpose of this governance framework is to outline all rules associated with governance and issuance of a Qube Report Credential. Qube Report Credential must be issued by Qube. The structure for the credential contains all information needed to fulfill a Qube Report. This credential is issued directly by Qube, which transfers aggregated methane emission volume data based on the time period selected at the site level to the site owner. This system and governance will allow a more trustworthy ecosystem. This will be built under this governance framework. 

### 1.7. Scope

The GF only covers the Qube Report Credential.

### 1.8. Objectives

TBD

### 1.9. Principles

TBD

### 1.10. General Requirements

TBD

### 1.11. Revisions

TBD

### 1.12. Extensions

TBD

### 1.13. Schedule of Controlled Documents

TBD

## 2. Controlled Documents

### 2.1. Glossary

TBD

### 2.2. Risk Assessment

TBD

### 2.3. Trust Assurance and Certification

TBD

### 2.4. Governance Requirements

TBD

### 2.5. Business Requirements

TBD

### 2.6. Technical Requirements

#### 2.6.1. Schema Definition

This schema definition follows the AnonCreds specification (https://anoncreds-wg.github.io/anoncreds-spec/)

Attribute | Format | Rules | Notes	
--- | --- | --- | --- |
siteAliases | String | not NULL | A Site Alias can be defined as the parent company's name or as determined by company.  
siteIds | String | not NULL | A Site ID is a numerical identifier generated by Qube. 
siteNames | String | not NULL | Site name is defined as company name as defined by a company. 
fromTime | String | not NULL | Only Methane Emission Summary Data that have occurred on or after this date will be returned. (required) (for example 2023-02-08T16:10:51Z)
toTime | String | not NULL | Only Methane Emission Summary Data that have occurred on or before this date will be returned.(required) (for example 2023-02-08T16:25:51Z")
equipment | String | not NULL |  The identified piece of equipment involved in an emission. If null then a piece of equipment could not be identified as being associated with the emission.
equipmentGroups | String | not NULL | Array of objects or null (SiteEquipmentGroupModel) The groups of equipment at the site
groupByEquipmentCategory | String | not NULL | When set to true the aggregated volumes are additionally grouped by equipment category.
samplingMethod | String | not NULL | Optionally specify the sampling method to use when sampling site rates
samplePeriod | String | not NULL | Optionally sample the site rates to a specified sampling period. (required)
groupByPeriod | String | not NULL | The period by which to group the aggregated volumes. (required)
totalVolume | String | not NULL | The total volume that was emitted over the course of the emission in the dashboard configured unit.
measurementTypes | String | not NULL | The type of measurements that should be returned. (required) 
deviceFilter | String | not NULL | A definition of what devices to filter by. You can specify either: 1) a site alias|id|name 2) a site alias|id|name with a list of device ids or 3) a list of device installation ids. (required)
production_data | String | not NULL | under review
thresholds_min | String | not NULL | under review
thresholds_max | String | not NULL | under review


#### 2.6.2. Credential Implementation

TBD

### 2.7. Information Trust Requirements

TBD

### 2.8. Inclusion, Equitability, and Accessibility Requirements

TBD

### 2.9. Legal Agreements

TBD

## End of Document

Commit message:

Updated Qube Credential
Updated to reflect issuer role, updated principles, general requirements, purpose, scope, objective and other areas of the document based on Qube's API and its website articulating each area.

credentials/credential-qube-report.md, after:

# Qube Monthly Report Primary Governance Document

## 1. Primary Document

### 1.1. Introduction
This document articulates the credential for the Qube Report Credential. This report is submitted on a monthly basis. 



This governance document has been developed in accordance with the ToIP’s Governance Metamodel Specification created by the Governance Stack Working Group (GSWG) as the template for this framework.

### 1.2. Terminology and Notation

[Glossary - General Trust Over IP Terms](https://trustoverip.github.io/toip/glossary)

### 1.3. Localization

The standard language for this governing framework (GF) is English.
 
### 1.4. Governing Authority

__________________is the governing authority and party legally responsible for developing, maintaining and implementing the Governance Framework. This is the only issuing party. 
The contact for petitioners and relying parties of this GF is:
* 	Name ___________
* 	Title ____________
* 	Organization ___________
* 	Email ____________

### 1.5. Administering Authority

TBD

### 1.6. Purpose

The purpose of this governance framework is to outline all rules associated with governance and issuance of a Qube Report Credential. A Qube Report Credential must be issued by Qube. The structure for the credential contains all information needed to fulfill a Qube Report. This credential is issued directly by Qube, which transfers aggregated methane emission volume data based on the time period selected at the site level to the site owner. This system and governance will allow a more trustworthy ecosystem. This will be built under this governance framework. 

### 1.7. Scope

The GF only covers the Qube Report Credential.

### 1.8. Objectives

This GF describes the Qube Report Credential consisting of data elements captured and included within a Qube Report and as defined by Qube API data elements and standards. A list of these can be found on the Qube Platfrom API (V2.0) https://api.qubeiot.com/index.html. The API allows the retrieval of sites, emissions, measurements and wind data. Qube Technologies seeks to apply meaningful greenhouse gas reduction delivered in three stages (detection, measurement and reduction). This trust framework outlines Qube's issuance of a credential based off of Schemas built from Qube Platform API data referenced above. 

### 1.9. Principles

Qube combines the best of hardware and physics-guided machine learning to provide an affordable, reliable alternative for emissions monitoring. Qube describes their principled technology approach as (1) detection (2) measurement and (3) reduction of methane emissions. 

*Detection* refers Qube’s Axon device that is used to mionitor gas emissions. *Measurement* refers to continuous data collected by Qube devices is analyzed  to generate site level insights including leak location, quantity and classification. *Reduction* refers to Qubes ability to manage, reduce, and report on company wide emissions performance.

Qube's technology and guiding principles are developed to meet ESG (Environmental Social Governance) principles. Environmental, social, and governance (ESG) data helps stakeholders key in on companies with light ecological footprints, sustainable workforce management, and transparent governance. ESG sheds light on business practices that don’t reflect directly on balance sheets but nonetheless may create material advantage, avoid risk, or signal other beneficial outcomes in the longer term. Qube states that the spirit of *data, disclosure, and collaboration* are principles that must guide the foundation of the energy industry.  


### 1.10. General Requirements

The API referenced in the Schema Definition section of this document allows the retrieval of sites, emissions, measurements and wind data. The API is a REST based API that returns data in JSON format.

### 1.11. Revisions

TBD

### 1.12. Extensions

TBD

### 1.13. Schedule of Controlled Documents

TBD

## 2. Controlled Documents

### 2.1. Glossary

TBD

### 2.2. Risk Assessment

TBD

### 2.3. Trust Assurance and Certification

TBD

### 2.4. Governance Requirements

TBD

### 2.5. Business Requirements

TBD

### 2.6. Technical Requirements

#### 2.6.1. Schema Definition

This schema definition follows the AnonCreds specification (https://anoncreds-wg.github.io/anoncreds-spec/)

Attribute | Format | Rules | Notes	
--- | --- | --- | --- |
siteAliases | String | not NULL | A Site Alias can be defined as the parent company's name or as determined by company.  
siteIds | String | not NULL | A Site ID is a numerical identifier generated by Qube. 
siteNames | String | not NULL | Site name is defined as company name as defined by a company. 
fromTime | String | not NULL | Only Methane Emission Summary Data that have occurred on or after this date will be returned. (required) (for example 2023-02-08T16:10:51Z)
toTime | String | not NULL | Only Methane Emission Summary Data that have occurred on or before this date will be returned.(required) (for example 2023-02-08T16:25:51Z")
equipment | String | not NULL |  The identified piece of equipment involved in an emission. If null then a piece of equipment could not be identified as being associated with the emission.
equipmentGroups | String | not NULL | Array of objects or null (SiteEquipmentGroupModel) The groups of equipment at the site
groupByEquipmentCategory | String | not NULL | When set to true the aggregated volumes are additionally grouped by equipment category.
samplingMethod | String | not NULL | Optionally specify the sampling method to use when sampling site rates
samplePeriod | String | not NULL | Optionally sample the site rates to a specified sampling period. (required)
groupByPeriod | String | not NULL | The period by which to group the aggregated volumes. (required)
totalVolume | String | not NULL | The total volume that was emitted over the course of the emission in the dashboard configured unit.
measurementTypes | String | not NULL | The type of measurements that should be returned. (required) 
deviceFilter | String | not NULL | A definition of what devices to filter by. You can specify either: 1) a site alias|id|name 2) a site alias|id|name with a list of device ids or 3) a list of device installation ids. (required)
production_data | String | not NULL | under review
thresholds_min | String | not NULL | under review
thresholds_max | String | not NULL | under review


#### 2.6.2. Credential Implementation

TBD

### 2.7. Information Trust Requirements

TBD

### 2.8. Inclusion, Equitability, and Accessibility Requirements

TBD

### 2.9. Legal Agreements

TBD

## End of Document
